 

COMPUTER GRAPHICS & 

ANIMATION 

Submitted to: Miss Noor Afshan 

 

 

 

SYED SHAMEER SARWAR 

CT- 044 

      

COMPUTER-GENERATED 

IMAGERY (CGI) 

 

 

Computer-generated imagery (CGI) is the application of Computer 
Graphics to create or contribute to images in art, printed media, video 
games, films, television programs, shorts, commercials, videos, and 
simulators. The visual scenes may be dynamic or static and may be two –
dimensional(2D), though the term “CGI” is most commonly used to refer 3D 
Computer Graphics used for creating scenes or special effects in films and 
televisions. 

 

The term ‘CGI animation’ refers to dynamic CGI rendered as a movie. The 
term virtual world refers to agent-based, interactive environments. 
Computer Graphics software is used to make computer-generated imagery for 
films, etc. Availability of CGI software and increased computer speeds have 
allowed individual artists and small companies to produce professional-
grade films, games, and fine art from their home computers. This has 
brought an internet subculture with its own set of global celebrities, and 
technical vocabulary. 

 

 

 

 

COMPUTER ANIMATION 

Computer animation only applies to dynamic images that resemble a 
movie. However, in general, the term computer animation refers to dynamic 
images that do not allow user interaction, and the term virtual world is 
used for the interactive animated environments. Computer generated 
animations are more controllable than other more physically based 
processes such as constructing miniatures for affects shots or hiring extras 

1 | P a g e  
 

for crowd scenes, and because it allows the creation of images that would not 
be feasible using any other technology. 

 

To create the illusion of movement, an image is displayed on the computer 
screen and repeatedly replaced by a new image which is similar to the 
previous image, but advanced slightly in the time domain(usually at a rate of 
24 or 30 frames per second). This technique is identical to how the illusion of 
movement is achieved with television and motion pictures. 

 

2 | P a g e  
 

